docs/compile-xtrabackup.md, before:

<!--- are these instructions current?
    --->

# Compile and install from source

The following instructions install Percona XtraBackup {{vers}}.

## 1. Install Percona XtraBackup from the Git Source Tree

Percona uses the [Github](https://github.com/) revision control system for development. To build the latest Percona Server for MySQL from the source tree, you will need `git` installed on your system.

You can now fetch the latest Percona XtraBackup {{vers}} sources:

```{.bash data-prompt="$"}
$ git clone https://github.com/percona/percona-xtrabackup.git
$ cd percona-xtrabackup
$ git checkout trunk
$ git submodule update --init --recursive
```

## 2. Installation prerequisites

The following packages and tools must be installed to compile *Percona XtraBackup* from source.
These might vary from system to system.

!!! important
 
    To build **Percona XtraBackup {{vers}} from source, you must use `cmake` 
    version 3. To check which version is 
    currently installed, run `cmake --version` at a command prompt. If the 
    version is not `3`, install `cmake3`.


This `cmake` version may be available 
in your distribution as a separate package `cmake3`. For more information, see [cmake.org].

=== "Debian or Ubuntu using `apt`"

    ```shell
    sudo apt install bison pkg-config cmake devscripts debconf \
    debhelper automake bison ca-certificates libprocps-dev \
    libcurl4-openssl-dev cmake debhelper libaio-dev \
    libncurses-dev libssl-dev libtool libz-dev libgcrypt-dev libev-dev libprocps-dev \
    lsb-release build-essential rsync libdbd-mysql-perl \
    libnuma1 socat librtmp-dev libtinfo5 vim-common \
    liblz4-tool liblz4-1 liblz4-dev zstd python-docutils
    ```

    To install the man pages, install the python3-sphinx package first:

    ```{.bash data-prompt="$"}
    $ sudo apt install python3-sphinx
    ```

=== "CentOS or Red Hat using `yum`"

    Percona Xtrabackup requires GCC version 5.3 or higher. If the
    version of GCC installed on your system is lower then you may need to
    install and enable [the Developer Toolset] on
    `RPM`-based distributions to make sure that you use the latest GCC
    compiler and development tools.  Then, install `cmake` and other
    dependencies:

    ```{.bash data-prompt="$"}
    $ sudo yum install cmake openssl-devel libaio libaio-devel automake autoconf \
    bison libtool ncurses-devel libgcrypt-devel libev-devel libcurl-devel zlib-devel \
    zstd vim-common procps-ng-devel
    ```

    To install the man pages, install the python3-sphinx package first:

    ```{.bash data-prompt="$"}
    $ sudo yum install python3-sphinx
    ```

## 3. Generate the build pipeline

At this step, you have `cmake` run the commands in the `CMakeList.txt`
file to generate the build pipeline, i.e., a native build environment that will
be used to compile the source code).
{.power-number}

1. Change to the directory where you cloned the Percona XtraBackup repository
 
    ```{.bash data-prompt="$"}
    $ cd percona-xtrabackup
    ```

2. Create a directory to store the compiled files and then change to that
directory:

    ```{.bash data-prompt="$"}
    $ mkdir build
    $ cd build
    ```

3. Run cmake or cmake3. In either case, the options you need to use are the
same.

!!! note
 
    You can build *Percona XtraBackup* with man pages but this requires
    `python-sphinx` package which isn’t available from that main repositories
    for every distribution. If you installed the `python-sphinx` package you
    need to remove the `-DWITH_MAN_PAGES=OFF` from previous command.

```{.bash data-prompt="$"}
$ cmake -DWITH_BOOST=PATH-TO-BOOST-LIBRARY -DDOWNLOAD_BOOST=ON \
-DBUILD_CONFIG=xtrabackup_release -DWITH_MAN_PAGES=OFF -B ..
```

### Parameter Information

| **Parameter** | **Description** |
|---------------|-----------------|
| `-DWITH_BOOST` | For the `-DWITH_BOOST` parameter, specify the name of a directory to download the boost library to. This directory is created automatically in your current directory. |
| `-DWITH_MAN_PAGES` | To build **Percona XtraBackup** man pages, use `ON` or remove this parameter from the command line (it is `ON` by default). To install the man pages, install the python3-sphinx package first. |
| `-B` (--build)| **Percona XtraBackup** is configured to forbid generating the build    pipeline for make in the same directory where you store your sources. The `-B` parameter refers to the directory that contains the source code. In this example, we use the relative path to the parent directory (..). |

!!! important
 
    CMake Error at CMakeLists.txt:367 (MESSAGE): Please do not build in-source. Out-of source builds are highly recommended: you can have multiple builds for the same source, and there is an easy way to do cleanup, simply remove the build directory (note that ‘make clean’ or ‘make distclean’ does `not` work)
    
    You `can` force in-source build by invoking cmake with `-DFORCE_INSOURCE_BUILD=1`.

## 4. Compile the source code

To compile the source code in your `build` directory, use the `make` command.
{.power-number}

1. Change to the `build` directory (created at Step 2: Generating the build pipeline).

2. Run the `make` command. This command may take a long time to complete.

    ```{.bash data-prompt="$"}
    $ make
    ```
   
    To use all CPU threads and make compilation faster please use:

    ```{.bash data-prompt="$"}
    $ make -j$(nproc --all)
    ```

## 5. Install on the target system

The following command installs all *Percona XtraBackup* binaries *xtrabackup*
and tests to default location on the target system: `/usr/local/xtrabackup`.

Run `make install` to install *Percona XtraBackup* to the default location.

```{.bash data-prompt="$"}
$ sudo make install
```

### Install to a non-default location

You may use the `DESTDIR` parameter with `make install` to install *Percona
XtraBackup* to another location. Make sure that the effective user is able to
write to the destination you choose.

```{.bash data-prompt="$"}
$ sudo make DESTDIR=<DIR_NAME> install
```

In fact, the destination directory is determined by the installation layout
(`-DINSTALL_LAYOUT`) that `cmake` applies (see
Step 2: Generating the build pipeline). In addition to
the installation directory, this parameter controls a number of other
destinations that you can adjust for your system.

By default, this parameter is set to `STANDALONE`, which implies the
installation directory to be `/usr/local/xtrabackup`.

!!! admonition "See also"
 
    [MySQL Documentation: -DINSTALL_LAYOUT]

## 6. Run Percona XtraBackup

After *Percona XtraBackup* is installed on your system, you may run it by using
the full path to the `xtrabackup` command:

```{.bash data-prompt="$"}
$ /usr/local/xtrabackup/bin/xtrabackup
```

Update your PATH environment variable if you would like to use the command on
the command line directly.

```{.bash data-prompt="$"}
$# Setting $PATH on the command line
$ PATH=$PATH:/usr/local/xtrabackup/bin/xtrabackup

$# Run xtrabackup directly
$ xtrabackup
```

Alternatively, you may consider placing a soft link (using `ln -s`) to one of
the locations listed in your `PATH` environment variable.

To view the documentation with `man`, update the `MANPATH` variable.

[cmake.org]: https://cmake.org/
[the Developer Toolset]: https://developers.redhat.com/products/developertoolset/overview
[MySQL Documentation: -DINSTALL_LAYOUT]: https://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/{{vers}}/en/source-configuration-options.html#option_cmake_install_layout

Commit message:

PXB-3410 [DOC] Add information on PRO builds to PXB 8.4 docs 	new file:   docs/install-pro.md 	new file:   docs/pro-files.md 	new file:   docs/pxb-pro.md 	modified:   mkdocs-base.yml 	new file:   snippets/pro-build-announcement.md

docs/compile-xtrabackup.md, after:

<!--- are these instructions current?
    --->

# Compile and install from source

The following instructions install Percona XtraBackup {{vers}}.

## 1. Install Percona XtraBackup from the Git Source Tree

Percona uses the [Github](https://github.com/) revision control system for development. To build the latest Percona Server for MySQL from the source tree, you will need `git` installed on your system.

You can now fetch the latest Percona XtraBackup {{vers}} sources:

```{.bash data-prompt="$"}
$ git clone https://github.com/percona/percona-xtrabackup.git
$ cd percona-xtrabackup
$ git checkout trunk
$ git submodule update --init --recursive
```

## 2. Installation prerequisites

The following packages and tools must be installed to compile *Percona XtraBackup* from source.
These might vary from system to system.

!!! important
 
    To build **Percona XtraBackup {{vers}} from source, you must use `cmake` 
    version 3. To check which version is 
    currently installed, run `cmake --version` at a command prompt. If the 
    version is not `3`, install `cmake3`.


This `cmake` version may be available 
in your distribution as a separate package `cmake3`. For more information, see [cmake.org].

=== "Debian or Ubuntu using `apt`"

    ```shell
    sudo apt install bison pkg-config cmake devscripts debconf \
    debhelper automake bison ca-certificates libprocps-dev \
    libcurl4-openssl-dev cmake debhelper libaio-dev \
    libncurses-dev libssl-dev libtool libz-dev libgcrypt-dev libev-dev libprocps-dev \
    lsb-release build-essential rsync libdbd-mysql-perl \
    libnuma1 socat librtmp-dev libtinfo5 vim-common \
    liblz4-tool liblz4-1 liblz4-dev zstd python-docutils
    ```

    To install the man pages, install the python3-sphinx package first:

    ```{.bash data-prompt="$"}
    $ sudo apt install python3-sphinx
    ```

=== "CentOS or Red Hat using `yum`"

    Percona Xtrabackup requires GCC version 5.3 or higher. If the
    version of GCC installed on your system is lower then you may need to
    install and enable [the Developer Toolset] on
    `RPM`-based distributions to make sure that you use the latest GCC
    compiler and development tools.  Then, install `cmake` and other
    dependencies:

    ```{.bash data-prompt="$"}
    $ sudo yum install cmake openssl-devel libaio libaio-devel automake autoconf \
    bison libtool ncurses-devel libgcrypt-devel libev-devel libcurl-devel zlib-devel \
    zstd vim-common procps-ng-devel
    ```

    To install the man pages, install the python3-sphinx package first:

    ```{.bash data-prompt="$"}
    $ sudo yum install python3-sphinx
    ```

## 3. Generate the build pipeline

At this step, you have `cmake` run the commands in the `CMakeList.txt`
file to generate the build pipeline, i.e., a native build environment that will
be used to compile the source code).
{.power-number}

1. Change to the directory where you cloned the Percona XtraBackup repository
 
    ```{.bash data-prompt="$"}
    $ cd percona-xtrabackup
    ```

2. Create a directory to store the compiled files and then change to that
directory:

    ```{.bash data-prompt="$"}
    $ mkdir build
    $ cd build
    ```

3. Run cmake or cmake3. In either case, the options you need to use are the
same.

!!! note
 
    You can build *Percona XtraBackup* with man pages but this requires
    `python-sphinx` package which isn’t available from that main repositories
    for every distribution. If you installed the `python-sphinx` package you
    need to remove the `-DWITH_MAN_PAGES=OFF` from previous command.

```{.bash data-prompt="$"}
$ cmake -DWITH_BOOST=PATH-TO-BOOST-LIBRARY -DDOWNLOAD_BOOST=ON \
-DBUILD_CONFIG=xtrabackup_release -DWITH_MAN_PAGES=OFF -B ..
```

If you use [Pro builds](./pxb-pro.md), add the `-DPROBUILD=ON` option to the list:

```{.bash .data-prompt="$"}
$ cmake -DWITH_BOOST=PATH-TO-BOOST-LIBRARY -DPROBUILD=ON -DDOWNLOAD_BOOST=ON \
-DBUILD_CONFIG=xtrabackup_release -DWITH_MAN_PAGES=OFF -B .. 
```

### Parameter Information

| **Parameter** | **Description** |
|---------------|-----------------|
| `-DWITH_BOOST` | For the `-DWITH_BOOST` parameter, specify the name of a directory to download the boost library to. This directory is created automatically in your current directory. |
| `-DWITH_MAN_PAGES` | To build **Percona XtraBackup** man pages, use `ON` or remove this parameter from the command line (it is `ON` by default). To install the man pages, install the python3-sphinx package first. |
| `-B` (--build)| **Percona XtraBackup** is configured to forbid generating the build    pipeline for make in the same directory where you store your sources. The `-B` parameter refers to the directory that contains the source code. In this example, we use the relative path to the parent directory (..). |

!!! important
 
    CMake Error at CMakeLists.txt:367 (MESSAGE): Please do not build in-source. Out-of source builds are highly recommended: you can have multiple builds for the same source, and there is an easy way to do cleanup, simply remove the build directory (note that ‘make clean’ or ‘make distclean’ does `not` work)
    
    You `can` force in-source build by invoking cmake with `-DFORCE_INSOURCE_BUILD=1`.

## 4. Compile the source code

To compile the source code in your `build` directory, use the `make` command.
{.power-number}

1. Change to the `build` directory (created at Step 2: Generating the build pipeline).

2. Run the `make` command. This command may take a long time to complete.

    ```{.bash data-prompt="$"}
    $ make
    ```
   
    To use all CPU threads and make compilation faster please use:

    ```{.bash data-prompt="$"}
    $ make -j$(nproc --all)
    ```

## 5. Install on the target system

The following command installs all *Percona XtraBackup* binaries *xtrabackup*
and tests to default location on the target system: `/usr/local/xtrabackup`.

Run `make install` to install *Percona XtraBackup* to the default location.

```{.bash data-prompt="$"}
$ sudo make install
```

### Install to a non-default location

You may use the `DESTDIR` parameter with `make install` to install *Percona
XtraBackup* to another location. Make sure that the effective user is able to
write to the destination you choose.

```{.bash data-prompt="$"}
$ sudo make DESTDIR=<DIR_NAME> install
```

In fact, the destination directory is determined by the installation layout
(`-DINSTALL_LAYOUT`) that `cmake` applies (see
Step 2: Generating the build pipeline). In addition to
the installation directory, this parameter controls a number of other
destinations that you can adjust for your system.

By default, this parameter is set to `STANDALONE`, which implies the
installation directory to be `/usr/local/xtrabackup`.

!!! admonition "See also"
 
    [MySQL Documentation: -DINSTALL_LAYOUT]

## 6. Run Percona XtraBackup

After *Percona XtraBackup* is installed on your system, you may run it by using
the full path to the `xtrabackup` command:

```{.bash data-prompt="$"}
$ /usr/local/xtrabackup/bin/xtrabackup
```

Update your PATH environment variable if you would like to use the command on
the command line directly.

```{.bash data-prompt="$"}
$# Setting $PATH on the command line
$ PATH=$PATH:/usr/local/xtrabackup/bin/xtrabackup

$# Run xtrabackup directly
$ xtrabackup
```

Alternatively, you may consider placing a soft link (using `ln -s`) to one of
the locations listed in your `PATH` environment variable.

To view the documentation with `man`, update the `MANPATH` variable.

[cmake.org]: https://cmake.org/
[the Developer Toolset]: https://developers.redhat.com/products/developertoolset/overview
[MySQL Documentation: -DINSTALL_LAYOUT]: https://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/{{vers}}/en/source-configuration-options.html#option_cmake_install_layout
